Hey Brian. Hey everybody. Hello YouTube. Everyone who is here watching live, thanks for being
here. Let us know if you got comments, feedbacks as always. And with that, my dog doesn't go
completely bonkers which is a likelihood for those of you watching live. I'll edit that
out, of course. We'll get started in just a second. All right. Brian, you ready?
>> I am ready. >> All right.
>> Yep. >> Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where
we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 320, recorded
January 24th, 2023. I'm Michael Kennedy. >> And I'm Brian Okken.
This episode is sponsored by us over at Talk Python Training
and Testing Code and Patreon supporters.
We'll talk more about all that
in a little bit further into the show.
And also, yes, for those of you listening live,
you already know this, but for most people,
they may not know that we're live streaming this on YouTube.
And if you just go to pythonbytes.fm/stream/live,
then you'll be able to follow over there.
Usually on Tuesdays at 11 Pacific time,
which it is right now, you can be part of the show.
That's how some of the folks are in the audience.
So hopefully you go over there and subscribe on YouTube
and press the notify so you know
when we're posting live streams.
And with that, let's get going, Brian.
Let's mark it down. - Okay.
I'm gonna talk about markdown a little bit
while you're queuing up your next item.
So I'm gonna get ready for next time.
So let's see, first off, I wanna talk.
We do pay attention to Rich and Will McGugan in the show,
And I'm not going to talk about them too much,
except for that I noticed that Rich updated--
we got a release note that they updated their Markdown parser
and from something called Common Mark, which
I was familiar with, to Markdown It Pi.
And I was curious about this.
So I went and took a look.
So the Common Mark library, if we go take a look at that,
that's up on PyPI, Common Mark, no big deal.
But if we go look at the source in GitHub,
it says this repository has been archived
by the owner on November of 2022.
Oops.
And if we look down a little bit further,
it says, "Warning, it's deprecated.
"We recommend using Common Mark down it, hi."
And okay, I haven't used it, so I wanted to go take a look.
So Markdownit, I think I'm saying that right,
is it's built on top of another,
it's another Markdownit tool.
So Markdownit is its own tool
and the Markdownit-py is a Python wrapper around it.
So great.
So it's, do we have to worry about this one
going out of fashion as well?
And I think we're probably safe
because the project this is a part of executable books
and executable books is a project to try to build
more collaboration with Jupyter notebooks.
So I think we're safe now.
So to use Markdown for PI for a while.
And I just did a quick, there's a live demo thing.
There's converting Markdown.
It's kind of a nice package.
You can do it by itself.
You can convert from Markdown to HTML on the command line,
Or you can use it within your code.
So you can use--
and it's got some nice features for in code,
pulling in different plugins and stuff
if you have different specialties.
And if we go back to the original release,
one of the reasons why they did it wasn't just--
the reasons why Rich started using it
isn't just because the common mark's been deprecated.
But they say it will allow us to implement
a number of additional Markdown features in the future.
So this is pretty exciting.
And yeah, I don't know a lot about Markdown it,
but I am gonna check it out.
So this is--
- Well, if it's used by executable books
and it's used by Rich,
I think that those are some pretty solid endorsements for it.
I saw that it got installed as well and I wasn't sure why,
but now I see that it's from Rich.
- Yeah, so--
I use Markdown too,
and I have no idea what the status of it is,
but there is so much of our website that runs on Markdown,
like every episode page you visit, that's a Markdown page.
There's a bunch on Talk Python,
a whole bunch of Talk Python Training.
So anything that's better for Markdown,
I'd definitely be wanting to give that a look.
- Well, and I don't want everybody using the same thing
because we do want some different tools
to build on each other and stuff.
- Indeed.
All right, should I sketch out the next idea for you?
- Yeah, let's take a look.
- Let's take a look, oh my God, this is fantastic.
So this was sent over by Jake Furman.
And Jake said, "Have you seen Sketch?"
So we've seen a lot of AI coding assistants.
We've talked about the potential bordering
on violating license agreements and stuff of GitHub Copilot.
Everyone has surely heard about ChatGPT.
I have friends who are not even in programming.
They come, "Michael, I'm working on some programming thing
"'cause of ChatGPT."
I'm like, "All right, well, interesting."
We'll see where all that stuff goes.
But this thing called Sketch is like a simple view,
a simple way to ask natural language questions
of your data that's contained in a pandas data frame.
- Ooh.
- Yeah. - Okay.
- So the way it works is you go and
it's not built into the editor.
It's part of monkey patches, I believe pandas,
so it adds a function to pandas called, I think, ask.
Let's see, what is the way we, yeah,
dot sketch dot ask or dot sketch dot how to
or sketch dot apply.
So these are the different kinds of prompts
that you can give it.
Okay?
- Okay.
- So you just pip install this.
And once it's pip installed and you import it,
that's all you gotta do.
And it lets you ask data cataloging questions
like is there any personally identifiable information,
PII within here?
Like is there a phone number or is there an email address
or is there a social security number?
This could be some big, large data set
and you don't wanna save necessarily that or share it.
You can ask it and it'll ask you how to,
it'll basically tell you how to get rid of it as well.
Also, give me descriptions of this data set.
Okay, which is nuts.
It also does data cleaning and masking
to, for example, removing the PII.
And it'll extract some features
and just lets you visualize stuff.
So the best way to do this is to watch
this one and a half minute video here.
And so what you do,
and what it shows you is it says,
here's a pandas data frame read from a CSV,
and it's got like an order ID and a price
and a date and an address.
And they just say, data frame.sketch.
Is there any personalizing information
or any personal information?
This is yes, these fields.
And it says, how can I remove it?
And so it writes out the code, you just copy and paste that.
Boom, now it's removed.
And then it says, give me a friendly,
let's see if I can pause this real quick.
It says,
can you give me friendly names?
Stop moving.
Can you give me friendly names
in a single sentence description of each column?
Format output as an HTML list.
And boom, it says index, numerical index, da da da da da.
Product, the product purchase in each order.
Order ID, a unique identifier for each order,
purchase address, the address of the customer
who placed the order and so on and so on.
- Nice.
- Isn't that neat?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so when it spits out the answer,
it puts a little copy tag so you can copy.
You can ask it, how do I do this?
You know, how to extract city, state and zip
from the address, which is a single string.
And it writes, it writes the code
to like do the split statements to pull it apart.
telling you this thing is, you know, it's not going to be
perfect. But it's going to be pretty good. It's pretty
interesting to just jump in. What do you think?
I think it's great. Hey, sketch. How do I remove the data that
disproves my hypothesis?
Exactly. I'm gonna need the data that shows a downward trend
here. Can you extract just those rows? Anyway, people can check
I think it's pretty neat.
It says, "In the future, we plan to update the prompt
at this endpoint with our own custom foundation model
built to answer questions more accurately
than GPT-3 can with its minimal data context."
So, because it doesn't know a lot about your data.
You can also directly call OpenAI directly, it says,
and not use their endpoint by using your own API key.
So there's that.
And anyway, it talks about how it works
and what it sends over and stuff.
So.
- This is pretty powerful though.
Because there's so much data for people using
and different things, we kind of expect it now.
I was working on a project just recently
where somebody, things like to test result analysis
and a question of like, can we just put
natural language strings in there to query it?
Why do we have to?
And so people are kind of expecting this
all over the place now.
- Yeah, I just wanna highlight just the last one there.
It says, go to the data frame, sketched on how to,
using Plotly, plot a map of the total sales in each state.
Boom, you get a perfectly, perfect interactive map,
a geographical map of the United States.
Like that's pretty neat.
- Yeah.
- To be able to just jump in and do that.
Like sure, you could go search and look that up,
but you know, instead of just doing df.head, df.tail
and so on, like how to?
- I could think I'm ready to hang up a shingle
for like a data science side job.
- I'm pretty sure that you and I could pass
as at least junior data scientists now.
- Just with this, yeah.
- Anyway, I think this is pretty cool.
I'm pretty psyched about it.
- It's pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- People should check it out.
From what I can tell, it doesn't cost anything.
So just play with it, which is really nice.
And also, before we move on,
I just wanna tell people that this episode
is brought to you by us, Brian.
So there's a whole bunch of Python courses
that if you get inspired over at Talk Python Training,
we've got the Python 3.11 guided tour,
which a couple hours of hands-on,
showing why that's awesome.
Python data visualization.
So if the sketch stuff was interesting,
like there's a bunch of that there.
And oh, there's also something on pytest, isn't there?
- Yeah, highly recommend that course.
It's great.
- I do as well.
All right, so if you wanna support us,
the best way you can do it is to support our other work
as well as share the podcasts with your friends.
So thank you, thank you, thank you for that.
- Yes, I also wanna thank the Patreon people
'cause they're, it's great.
We don't really talk about it much,
but you can support us through Patreon as well
and we very much appreciate it.
- Absolutely.
All right, what you got for our next one, Brian?
- Well, I wanna go in circles a little bit,
actually going back to the year 2021.
No, in 2021, we covered a article by Hinnick
called "Subclassing in Python Redux."
And it's a great article to talk about
like just how subclassing and dealing with classes in Python
and just to get your head around it.
So I did read it and I enjoyed it.
And then this year I came across the problem
and I'm like, I think I can solve it
with something I read in this article.
So I'm gonna scroll down to the thing specifically
and it's called, so we have nominal subtyping
with abstract base classes.
I tried that, but I decided to go with structural subtyping.
And with structural subtyping, basically,
my understanding is it's like duck typing,
but with like, it's like strict duck typing.
And it says here, as you can see,
if you've got something calling two things,
two classes talking to each other,
one of them doesn't have to know about the other.
So in this example, we've got a reader and a foo reader,
and it's just a reader protocol.
We just need to know that there's a reader protocol here.
So I kind of like, I just knew this was here
and I'm like, how do I apply this?
So I went ahead and wrote up an article
called fixing circular imports in Python with protocol.
And this is directly from this.
So it's just a zoom in on one special case.
I really have, like if I've got a class director and actor
and they talk to each other.
So director tells an actor to do an action, no big deal.
It has to import the actor, right?
So the actor gets a director.
So I'm gonna, it gets data from the director.
And so it has to be able to call it.
Well, I could just pass it in self.
And since we have duck typing, it all works fine.
That we just call director, get data.
So far we have no types.
That the problem comes in when we have types.
If we add types to the whole mix,
then when we add types to the director,
It's no big deal, we just add types to everything.
But to add types to the actor,
suddenly the actor needs to know
what type the director is.
And that's where we get the problem.
And that's exactly the kind of problem
that I ran into is I wanted to add typing to this,
to a similar problem and it blows up.
It actually blows up really bad.
Python just says you can't do that.
It's circular import.
So the protocol solution is really slick
I'm going to scroll down to the answer.
The answer is just, I just need a little bit of a snippet of code that says,
I've got this class that is derived from protocol,
but it's just got a get data function.
And that's all I know about it. I know what it returns,
and that's all I know. And I can say that my director really is that type.
And that's it. The actor has to change to say what type it is.
And the rest of the code just works.
And I don't have to change the director.
I don't have to change the test code.
It's just this one file that I'm changing.
And I like this because I'm adding typing.
I'm not changing the code at all.
And the only thing is that--
yeah, anyway, it's a slick way to use it.
I think so, too.
It's a little bit like interfaces,
but less in the traditional Java or C#,
the IEnumerable or whatever type of interfaces.
Yeah, and then Hinnik goes through
abstract base classes also, and that's one thing you could do,
is you could have a base class that has this getData function,
and both the director and the actor know about the base class,
but you don't really need that.
Nobody else needs to know that except for this one file,
So protocol is a nice hack.
>>Interesting.
Yeah.
Jonathan in the audience is asking,
why not just use abstract base classes?
>>They both work.
So it's just a personal preference thing.
So yeah.
>>And Kim in the audience is asking,
as a question of style, do you prefer an ellipsis
over the keyword past to indicate an empty function?
>>Well, I'm warming to the ellipsis a lot
because I write a lot of test code
and I write a lot of example test code.
And if I say an empty function that is a test function
and I use dot, dot, dot,
it's clear that I'm not finishing it.
Whereas if I say pass,
I've actually had some people get confused
and think that the pass keyword is how you pass a test.
It's not.
(both laughing)
- We can be, if you've got no--
- Well, you're not gonna raise an error in that test method
if you got a pass in there.
I mean, it's sort of a way to pass it.
- Yeah.
Anyway.
- Yeah, I kinda like it too to say,
look, I don't want anything here.
I don't intend to come back and fill it out.
Just, this is it.
- And it kinda matches, the ellipses match
how we do like type stubs as well.
I think I'll use ellipses,
but I don't know if they have to.
- I think they do as well.
Like if you go and look at TypeShed
and you look at the stubs in there,
like let me just grab one rando.
Yeah, all those have dot, dot, dots.
Dot, dot, dots for their default value,
dot, dot, dot for the implementation.
They're kind of gnarly looking if you open them up,
but there they are.
So yeah, to me, I kind of feel like I'm matching the stub.
- Yeah. - Definition,
like I don't intend anything to be here.
Yeah. - Exactly.
- Right. All right.
Ready for the next one?
- Yes.
- This is a simple,
and I think will be useful to many, many folks.
This one comes to us via Rud Vanderham.
Rud Vanderham, thank you.
Sent it over and recommended, also created it.
So we've all seen like code samples
that I don't know why,
but I guess it's a decent way to explore it.
But I've always found it a little bit difficult to consume.
Basically, I wanna show you how this bit of code works
in the REPL.
Here's what happens.
Copy this and use it, right?
And when you see that here,
you have the triple arrow and you write some code,
the triple, you know, right arrow,
no greater than, greater than, greater than, right?
You might do a for loop,
which then has the indents and it does a triple dot dot dot
to show you that, well, now you're still in the same command.
And then eventually, a closing dot, and you run it.
And if you print out, if you just say a variable or a response,
then that gets printed without any of the dots
or the greater thans or anything.
It's just straight up, as if you said print that, right?
So if I do like copy this, and I want to explore it,
I've got it. Okay. You know, remove all the triple dot dots on indent it correctly. Remove
the arrows, common, you know, it's just like, yuck, right? It's just a hassle. So enter
unravel the the inverse of rebel, where you say, take this code and make it runnable.
For me. Isn't that cool? Yeah. Super simple. Like, even if you're in the rebel, you can't
take what you're copying from someone else's example
and put it in the REPL because then you'll have
triple greater thans.
And so you just take this code
and the way it works is you copy it to the clipboard,
your code sample that you got from this REPL thing.
And then you just call unrepl as a CLI
and it replaces the clipboard
with contents of exactly what you would want.
And it even comments out the output.
So what wasn't code is now a code comment.
- Oh, wow.
- Nice.
- That's perfect.
- Yeah, really perfect, right?
- Yeah.
- So I can certainly see that this is a handy thing
that people may want to install.
So when you see the instructions here,
it says you can just use unrapple.py
and the way that you run it, it says up here somewhere.
Okay, what you do.
So what you do is you copy it
And then you run, oh, great, he's updated.
It just says unrapple.
It used to say run unrapple.py, but it's also on PyPI,
which means that you can pip install it.
But I would not pip install it.
This is not the thing that goes into a virtual environment
to be part of a program.
This is a CLI tool that you just want to have available.
So I would replace pip with pipx.
And then you just globally have this command
on your computer just happens to be implemented with Python.
But you copy it, just type Unrapple,
and then whatever was in the clipboard is now better.
- Okay.
- It doesn't say use pipx, but I think that's the way.
That's certainly how I would do it
if I'm gonna install and use this thing.
There's a way to set up a auto hotkey on Windows only.
I have no idea about this, so you're on your own there.
- Okay, so how do you use it on the command line?
You just--
You just type the word Unrapple once you've installed it
in the path, which PIPX, of course, does.
- And then you paste your code or use it to--
- So you copy your code, type Unrapple on the command line.
It looks at your clipboard.
- Oh, okay.
- Unrapple it and then it replaces the clipboard
like basically with a new copy.
- Oh, that's neat. - Command, yeah.
- That's great. - Exactly.
- Yeah. - Yeah, so really easy.
It also says you can import it into a program
and use it if for some reason you feel like
that's the thing you want.
And it has special handling of the underscore,
which has special meaning in the REPL.
Like it knows about underscore and treats it accordingly.
- Well, like for instance,
somebody could like maybe change B Python
or something like that to allow you to paste right in.
- Yep.
People out there think it's nice.
This is a nifty little tool, says Kim.
And see, it uses Tkinter,
presumably for clipboard access.
I believe so as well.
It should use paperclip, I believe.
Paperclip, paperclip rather, Piperclip.
If I were saying it, that's like a super small,
simple little thing, cross-platform copy and paste,
but you know, it doesn't matter really.
what it uses to accomplish copy and paste.
>> But Tkinter is built in now,
is just normally.
>> Yeah, that's true. I guess there's no dependency.
That's right, there's no dependency.
Maybe I'll take that back, maybe that is better.
Anyway, I love Paperclip.
This is cool. I don't know if you're working on a book or if
you're learning a lot where you're
grabbing stuff off of tutorials.
I spoke a tiny bit disparagingly of this,
because the style of showing the REPL output,
I'd rather show an example that has executable code
and a print statement.
I kind of already write this output like,
here's the code, comment, here's the output.
I don't know, it seems a little more reasonable to me,
but whatever, people can write them in any style they want
and this Unrapple will roll it from one to the other.
- Yeah, you can also use a doc test
to check your Rapple docs.
- Yes, exactly.
And while they're giving a challenge to the community,
I think someone should write a PyCharm
and VS Code plugins using this
so it becomes part of the editors as well,
which would be pretty neat.
Paste as, paste from, right?
Paste from REPL.
- Yeah, that'd be cool.
- Yeah, but it's already really handy to have it just,
you know, just pop over to the terminal and run this.
- Yeah, awesome. - All right.
I guess that's it for all of our items, isn't it?
- I think it is.
- Yeah, we've come to the end of all of the main things.
What do you got for our extras today?
- Well, I was gonna mention that I wrote an article,
but it was my item, so.
- Correct.
- So that's it.
- There you go.
I got a couple of quick ones here.
So I think this happened since our last show,
but pretty much right after it shipped.
If you have Git, you should update it.
So there's remote code execution level vulnerabilities
in the Git client that is sitting on your machine
if you have less than 2.39,
maybe even less than 2.39.1,
I can't remember the exact version.
But until last week, there was a problem,
I'll link to this over here,
but you don't really want that.
Yeah, affects 2.39 and older.
- I know.
So careful.
I mean, if you're only pulling stuff from your own repo
and only you can put stuff in your repo, you're safe.
But if you're checking out someone else's repo
or PRs or things, you might not like it.
Okay, another one here.
Over on,
quite on training,
we, as much as I don't like to,
had to add some kind of validation.
It used to be that dreaded recapture thing from Google.
And it would say, find all of the stoplights.
And you're like, well, is it the pole of the stoplight?
Also the stoplight.
I mean, technically it is, but it's not the light part.
And it'll be like, try again.
You're like, no.
Right?
But because it's the internet, we can't have nice things.
Unfortunately, I had to put something there
to slow people down because they were just pounding away on it
in various ways that were not ideal.
We had stuff to mitigate it.
But once you start encountering botnets,
then you kind of get yourself into a bad place.
So I had to put the reCAPTCHA stuff there
to keep people from messing with it.
And I hate reCAPTCHA, but I did it because I had to.
So then when Cloudflare came out with turnstile,
I'm like, yes, this is so much better.
It doesn't ask you about chimneys or fire trucks.
It just does a little like run some code on your browser
to prove that you're not just requesting
and posting this from some bot,
but it's a real browser, off it goes, right?
So that's great.
Eli Cobbler said, "Hey, this is awesome
"that you got this working.
"I can't get it working.
"How do you use it?"
So I ended up posting a gist,
which has that implementation of this
using like a faux web framework.
Doesn't really, I didn't want to try it to blast,
but it just says like,
here's your thing that handles the forum posts.
Do this.
It shows the HTML bit, which also Cloudflare would show,
but they don't have the Python version.
And then it has the
pedantic based API validation stuff here,
which is, this is the gnarly bit.
So he was like, I can't get it working.
Could you post this?
And apparently he got it working as well,
but I'm sure there are other people who equally hate
find all the haystacks, find all the fire trucks
and would rather use churn style,
but it's kind of tricky to use.
So they can also use that gist if they so wish.
Yeah.
- That's funny.
- Yeah.
David Poole says,
"Google's captures made me doubt my own humanity."
(laughing)
- So I always thought like,
that'd be fun to do like trees instead
or like plant identification.
Like, like find the azaleas.
- What?
Let's see.
So when I talked about getting a bunch of stickers
on my computer the other day, remember that?
- Yeah.
- Well, one of the stickers I put is I'm not a robot
and it's like a validated reCAPTCHA.
So I just thought that was fun too.
- But that's cool.
- Yeah, anyway, so if people are interested
and they wanna try out Turnstile,
which is way more privacy oriented,
also nicer 'cause you don't have to interact with it.
It's just a little hard to work with.
Here's some code that they can try
that at least one other person has been successful using.
So that's a tepid, but somewhat good testimonial.
How's that?
- That's nice.
- All right, thank goodness it wasn't in the JavaScript,
Brian.
>> Yeah.
>> Because if it's in the JavaScript,
I don't want to have to go debug that. Do you want to debug it?
>> No, I don't want to debug it in the JavaScript.
>> It might make you so crazy as if to go and
literally write a song
about how much you don't want to go into the JavaScript.
>> Yeah.
>> Now, I am very unskilled at music,
but Dylan Betty is actually quite skilled and has
a whole bunch of really funny songs here,
like the big rewrite based on American Pie,
when the eight and a half minute long song I'll point out,
and he wrote a programming song against it.
>> Awesome.
>> Your API is a hall of shame.
You give rest a bad name based on the Bon Jovi song.
But neither of those are the one that I'm referring to.
No, I'm referring to the song called Bug in
the JavaScript based on Piano Man by Billy Joel.
- This is good stuff, right?
- Yeah.
- Now it's six and a half minutes,
so there's no way I can play it,
but it starts out like,
you've checked all of your database indexes,
you've tuned all your API hooks.
You're starting to think that you might need a drink
because there's only one place left to look.
There must be a bug in the JavaScript
because everything else is built properly,
but the front end's a pile of crap.
It's so fun.
- I like it.
to think that I might need a drink because there's only one place left to look.
It's really good.
I recommend people put this on.
And if you're working with Angular or Vue or some friend in framework, you can play
it loud in the office just to share a little bit of the feeling.
Anyway, that's what I got for you this week.
People can go watch the YouTube video.
>> Thanks.
>> Yeah, you bet.
And thanks for being here.
everyone for listening as always. Thank you. Bye. Bye y'all.
[BLANK_AUDIO]